(gentle music)
- Ideals versus reality?
Really now?
Did Alise and
Kaguya try to start
another debate or somethin'?
What I recommend,
put on a serious face
and just nod along to
whatever they have to say.
- Come on.
I'm asking a genuine question
here, Lyla.
If I gather a
variety of opinions,
I can figure out
the right answer-
- Yeah, whatever.
You Elves really get
on my nerves sometimes.
Right is subjective.
It's different depending
on who you ask, you know.
(Ryu grunts)
And honestly, whether
something's true
is ultimately up to
each of us to decide.
At the end of the day,
you have to make a truth
that's acceptable to you.
- I wish you were this
thoughtful all the time, Lyla.
- Excuse me, missy!
I am the pinnacle of
thoughtfulness and humility.
- I'd like you to remember
something important, okay?
Everything you've taught me,
the art of negotiation
via blackmail,
(Lyla grunts)
a plethora of intimidation
techniques,
(Lyla grunting)
surefire ways to win a bet,
plus how to cheat at,
(Lyla whistling)
well, everything.
(Lyla grunts)
- If you wanna
take out the trash,
sometimes you're gonna have to
get your hands a little dirty.
- [Ryu] And while there
may be some merit to that,
I know more about these
underhanded tactics
than I ever wanted to.
- Keep in mind, you're
a young and inexperienced Elf.
I'm only looking out for you.
- [Ryu] I won't deny the
fact that I'm inexperienced,
but I don't know.
I'm just not sure
what you're teaching me.
- Okay. Listen.
Knowledge is your weapon.
Information is your friend.
Everything I've taught you
may save your ass someday.
Whether it's a random
piece of trivia
or an unorthodox method
of some sort.
It's tough to wrap your
head around. I get it.
But it's better
than being clueless.
There's no rush.
So try and turn your knowledge
into wisdom. Understand?
- Turn knowledge to wisdom?
- Hm, if you can do that,
then you might save
someone else's ass.
You just need to be ready.
And everyone will think
you're cool, you know?
And you could be the
coolest Elf ever. (chuckles)
(gentle music)
(Opening Song)
(footsteps tapping)
(Bell gasps)
(ominous music)
(footstep thuds)
(monster grunting)
(footsteps crunching)
- [Ryu] The Colosseum.
- The Colosseum?
- It's quite the fitting name.
Monsters spawn infinitely,
no matter how many die.
That defines this place.
- [Bell] Infinitely?
- When one monster disappears,
another one immediately
spawns in its place.
So, well, there's
a perpetual supply.
(Bell gasps)
A miniature, condensed
version of the Dungeon itself.
Not even the Loki
Familia goes near it.
It is perhaps the most dangerous
area on the 37th Floor.
- Miss Ais and the others won't
even set foot in this place?
- [Ryu] We have no choice but
to cut across the Colosseum.
- Miss Ryu, that's not-
- If we reach the other side,
we'll be back on track.
Once we're there,
getting to the 36th
Floor should be easier.
- Hang on!
- Let me put it this way.
If we don't cut
across the Colosseum,
we can't get to
the normal route.
That's gonna make escaping
this floor extremely difficult.
This is our moment of truth.
No, wait.
It's a situation that
we cannot avoid.
One we must face.
(Bell grunts)
(Ryu chuckles)
Now that we've been able
to identify the Colosseum,
I have a pretty good
idea where we are.
There are four different
exits in this room.
Of those, the one that
leads to the normal route
is positioned directly opposite
the passageway
we're standing in.
- So it's the side
farthest from us.
How are we supposed to
cross the Colosseum?
There's an endless
supply of monsters.
We won't make any ground.
- Which is why we want to
avoid battling them entirely.
We're going to blend in so that
we don't attract
their attention.
- [Bell] A Skull Sheep hide?
- That's right.
(tense music)
We'll be camouflaged
if we wear this.
(Bell retching)
We'll also disguise our scent.
- Was that an item drop?
- A Barbarian Heart.
We'll grind it up and cover
ourselves from head to toe.
With that and if we're
careful not to make any noise,
we should be able to
trick the monsters.
- Wow, Miss Ryu, I'd be
lost without you here.
- Mr. Cranel?
- You're always so calm
even at times like this,
always making the right choices.
Only thing I'm good at
is getting in trouble.
I honestly don't
think I could escape
from the Deep Floors
without your help.
- Please Mr. Cranel, try to
turn your knowledge into wisdom.
- My knowledge...
Wait, what?
- I'll explain.
Let knowledge inform your
actions.
You'll get better at helping
others,
if you can apply it under
the appropriate circumstances.
And then you'll become even
stronger.
- Got it.
(Ryu chuckles)
- Do you remember the
shape of the normal route
and the mapping technique
I showed you?
- Ah? Yeah.
It's basically a really
expansive corridor.
If we're able to avoid
all the side paths,
we should reach
the adjoining tunnel.
As far as size goes,
the map is drawn on a scale
where 10 steps equals 20.
- Excellent.
We've got three Blazerocks left.
I want you to take
one of them with you.
- Huh? You sure?
- Please just take it.
We have no idea what'll happen.
We ought to divvy up the items
so that we can both
defend ourselves
regardless of the situation.
- [Bell] Okay.
- [Ryu] Let's move.
(footsteps tapping)
(ominous music)
- [Bell] If they sense the
presence of an intruder,
every single monster will
come rushing towards us.
Don't panic.
We'll sneak right by
without them noticing.
(both grunting)
(ominous music continues)
(footsteps tapping)
(Peluda growls)
(footsteps thudding)
(footsteps tapping)
Stay calm.
You're fine.
(footsteps tapping)
(ground crashing)
(Peluda growling)
(ominous music continues)
(Bell sighs)
(footsteps tapping)
Keep going.
You're doing good.
There it is.
- [Ryu] Let's go.
- [Bell] Roger.
(footsteps tapping)
(monsters growling)
(tense suspenseful music)
(Loup Garou growling)
(Peluda growling)
(weapons clanking)
(Peluda roaring)
(monsters roaring)
- I've been told that these
monsters remain locked
in a never-ending
battle with each other
except for when an intruder
encroaches upon their territory.
(footsteps thudding)
(Spartoi chittering)
(Spartoi thudding)
(Bell grunts)
That's the bridge we
want over there.
It's the long way around,
but staying on this
level is the safest way
to the other side.
- Miss Ryu, would that
bridge over there take us
to the normal route?
- Unfortunately for us, no.
And while the right-hand side
is connected to the maze,
there's only one viable option.
It's the bridge located
directly in front of us.
- Understood.
(tense suspenseful music)
(monsters roaring)
We're walking right above them.
Can we really make it all the
way across without being seen?
(Loup Garou growling)
(Bell gasps)
(foot thuds)
(tense suspenseful music)
(Loup Garou growling)
Go away.
Go away, go away!
(Loup Garou growling)
(Loup Garou roars)
Thank goodness.
(Barbarian roaring)
(Barbarian thuds)
(Lizardman growling)
(Lizardman roaring)
- Let's move carefully
and keep our eyes
peeled at all times.
- Sure thing.
(monsters roaring)
Why does a place like this
even exist in the Dungeon?
- There's a lot we don't
know about the Deep Floors.
I've heard of where monsters
pour endlessly from the walls,
at least in one area.
- Endlessly? Is that possible?
- They aren't around anymore,
but I'm told that adventurers
from the Zeus and Hera
Familias once reported as much.
They specifically said
it was almost as though the
Dungeon was testing something.
- It's testing?
Testing what?
(monsters roaring)
Adventurers? Or maybe the
monsters?
(Peluda growls)
(Bell gasps)
(Peluda roaring)
(ground crashing)
(Bell yells)
(dramatic suspenseful music)
(Ryu gasps)
(Bell grunting)
(Bell thuds and grunts)
(monsters growling)
(both grunting)
(monsters roaring)
(dramatic suspenseful music
continues)
- Let's go!
(both panting)
(tense suspenseful music)
(monsters growling and howling)
(Bell panting)
(monsters howling)
(Bell yells)
(weapon clanks)
(Bell grunting)
(dramatic suspenseful music)
(Bell grunts)
(Spartoi chittering)
- We shouldn't try
to face them head on!
Focus on securing
a path forward!
(Ryu groans and thuds)
- Miss Ryu!
(Bell grunts)
(Barbarian roars)
Fire bolt!
(monsters howling)
(Ryu grunts)
(Bell grunts)
Fire bolt!
(explosion booming)
(dramatic suspenseful
music continues)
(Bell and Ryu grunting)
(monsters growling)
(monsters thudding)
(Bell panting)
It's no use.
(Bell grunts)
No matter how many we kill,
they just keep coming!
(Ryu yelling and grunting)
(monster shattering)
If we don't do something,
they're going to overwhelm us!
We might be able to cross the
bridge and get to the exit.
But what happens if they
end up following us?
(Bell groans)
No, not yet.
(footsteps tapping)
Not yet. Not yet.
(Bell grunting)
(dagger clanking)
(Bell yells)
(tense suspenseful music)
(Bell panting)
Almost there.
(monsters growling)
It's coming from
outside the Colosseum?
Ugh, seriously?
- [Ryu] Mr. Cranel,
head for the bridge.
- Huh?
- Finish off the
enemies up ahead.
I'll use my magic and take
care of anything behind us.
- But don't you think I
should be the one who-
- Now in the skies of
the distant forest
to the infinite stars mounted on
the eternal firmament of night.
(Bell grunts)
- I'll be right back, okay?
(dramatic music)
(Bell grunting)
(Bell yelling)
- This fool doth entreat,
just once for the divine
protection of the stars' fire.
Grant thy benevolent light to
the one who abandoned thee.
(dramatic music continues)
(explosion booming)
(monsters roaring)
- Miss Ryu is incredible.
So long as I'm with her,
(Loup Garou growling)
I know we can survive anything.
(Bell grunting)
(Bell groans)
(monsters howling)
Huh?
What are you doing?
What is that?
- Let the light of stardust
occupy me.
Strike my enemy.
- Miss Ryu!
- I call you Luminous Wind.
(Bell grunting)
(Bell yelling)
(ground crashing)
(Bell thuds and groans)
(Bell groaning)
(rocks thudding)
- Miss Ryu!
(Bell gasps)
But I don't understand.
Why are you doing this?
(pensive music)
- This is for the best.
- Is she trying to save me?
No. No.
Miss Ryu! Miss Ryu!
- Now go on.
- Miss Ryu! You can't do this!
(Bell grunting)
(melancholic music)
(Bell shouting)
- Good.
I've armed him with as much
knowledge as I possibly can.
So even without me, he...
No, once I'm no longer a burden
to him,
he should be able to
escape the Deep Floors.
You will mourn my
decision, no doubt.
Be that as it may,
you deserve to live, more so
than I.
(swords clanking)
(Ryu thuds)
After all the things I've done,
there's no point in
defending myself anymore.
(Ryu grunts)
But I refuse to go
down without a fight.
Besides, I'd be too ashamed
to face Alise and the others
if I didn't struggle
until my very last breath.
(footsteps thudding)
(Ryu grunting)
(sword shattering)
So this is to be my grave.
(Ryu grunts)
(sword clanks)
(coat fluttering)
(Ryu thuds)
(Ryu groans)
I'm going to die a
plaything for beasts,
with neither a corpse nor
a shred of my Elven pride
to show for it.
(Ryu groaning)
But you know what?
That's fine with me
because I was able to save him.
(Ryu thuds and groans)
Forgive me, Syr. Sorry, guys.
I'm squandering the
life you gave me.
Alise, please...
Pass your judgment upon me.
(explosion booming)
(Ryu grunts)
What was that?
- Get ready!
(dramatic music)
(Bell grunts)
(Bell thuds and grunts)
- But how?
How did he?
Huh? He couldn't have!
And while the right-hand side
is connected to the maze...
He went all the way around
to come and rescue me?
(Bell thuds and grunts)
(Bell yells)
You idiot! Why
would you do that?
We both cannot escape
from this place!
There's still time left!
Turn around and run!
(Bell panting)
(Bell grunts)
Save yourself! Just leave me!
Don't do this!
It's not worth it!
(Bell grunts)
(Bell yelling)
All I ever wanted was
for you to make it
out of here alive.
Why'd you come back?
(Ryu gasps)
Is that...
(Bell panting)
(Bell yelling)
(dramatic suspenseful music)
- Miss Ryu, go!
- All right, but what if someone
makes their ideals reality?
- Oh, you know that already.
There's a special name for them.
We call people who do that
heroes.
(both grunting)
- Fire bolt!
(explosion booming)
(Ending Song)
- [Ryu] Next time:
"Astrea Familia."